---
layout: post
read_time: true
show_date: true
title: Ohm Meter
date: 2024-04-09 05:50:00 -0500
description: Design process of a digital ohm meter
img: posts/20240409/resistors.jpg
tags: [measurement, standard, ohms, resistors]
author: Rafael Reyes
github: catto-electronics/ohm-meter/
mathjax: yes
---

## Overview
Sorting resistors is a tedious task. Reading the color bands becomes harder when the color of the resistor has low constrast with the color bands. A solution for sorting resistors is to use a multimeter with an intgrated ohm meter. The following design process is for an ohm meter that displays the value, nearest standard value, and percent error of the resistor. 

## Measurment


## Standard Values
Resistor values are spaced apart on a logorithmic scale. The E-series denotes that every decade is divided by that number. The following formula, sourced from Jeremy Webb's website, is used to calculate the [standard resistor values](https://jwebb-design.com/ee/digital/std_resistors.html). 

<p style="text-align:center">\(<br>
\begin{align}
R = d \ast 10^{\frac{i}{N}},
\end{align}
\)</p>

<p class="postMath" style="text-align:center">\(<br>
\begin{align}
\begin{array}{r | l} 
\text{} & d \text{ = decade multiplier: 10, 100, 1k, ...}
\\ \text{where} & N \text{ = E-series: 12, 24, 48, 96}
\\ \text{} & i = 0 ... N-1
\end{array}
\end{align}
\)</p>

The E-series 12, 24, 48, 96, have tolerances of 10%, 5%, 2%, 1% respectively. E24 series resistors are also available with a tolerance of 1%. 

## Error
Percent error (err) shows how much a resistor deviates from the standard (Std.) value as a percentage. 

<p style="text-align:center">\(<br>
\begin{align}
err = \frac{Measured - Std.}{Std.}*100\%,
\end{align}
\)</p>

A negative percentage denotes a measured value lower than the standard. The direction of deviation is insignificant, since resistors are chosen with tolerance in mind.

## Implementation

## <center>s</center>